---
layout: work
author: Michael McDermott
title: Website for a [Blank]
slug: p2
subhead: Project 2
categories: [projects]
excerpt: Understanding each step in the process of a website project is important no matter what role you take in that process. This project puts you in each role of the process, from the initial idea to the design to, potentially, the final build.

---

### Description
You will conceptualize, plan, and design a multipage website using one of several provided topics. Each student's project will be unique in content and form but be based on the same basic set of requirements.

Each topic has a specific set of pages to design and a goal for what that should accomplish. You will generate the content for each page by finding text and images online (or creating on your own) to use for each page based on that page's goal.

The first step of the project will be the planning phase &mdash; finding or generating content, coming up with a general concept, finding visual references, creating a site map and wireframes. Then you will use that concept and content to design the site. For this project you will design a desktop version of the site at 1440px and a mobile version of the site at 320px. This means you will have a design for each of the four pages at each size.

The topics you can choose from are <a href="#food">Food</a>, <a href="#art">Art</a>, <a href="#music">Music</a>, or <a href="#travel">Travel</a>.

### Topics
#### <span id="food">Food Based</span>
Create a website for a fictional restaurant, Pines of Nowhere. Pines of Nowhere is a Modern American restaurant dedicated to seasonal cooking and sourcing from local farms and waters. Our menu showcases the bounty of the Chesapeake Bay watershed in thoughtful, delicious and beautiful dishes that aim to nourish and surprise. The food is accompanied by a program of fine craft cocktails and an expertly curated wine list. Each week, a limited number of 15-course tasting menus are available at our chef’s counter, offering parties of two a unique and intimate chef-driven experience.

##### Necessary Pages
* _Home_ &ndash; A page that gives a visitor an overview of what the site is for as well as drawing the visitor to stay on the site. Does not need a lot of information but should have some text, images, and/or graphics.
* _About_ &ndash; Gives an overview of the restaurant. A place for the location, about the restaurant, hours, contact info, etc.
* _Menu_ &ndash; This page needs a dinner menu appropriate for the restaurant. If you are having trouble finding content, use this [menu]( {{ site.baseurl }}/assets/p2/menu.txt)
* _Events_ &ndash; Pines of Nowhere hosts special events in the restaurant. The restaurant allows full buy outs for events but also will allow events hosted on the patio and in the private dining room.

#### <span id="art">Art Based</span>
Create a website for The Velvet Velvet, a fictional gallery. Every year, The Velvet Velvet features three to four larger shows about graphic design and architecture, with smaller monthly exhibits featuring work from local designers. Nothing on display will be for sale. The Velvet Velvet is like a free private museum of design scholarship meant to appeal to the whims of its founders—and hopefully the community.

In addition to the small and larger exhibits, one will find for sale a modest selection of books and magazines about graphic design, typography, and architecture from publishers all over the world.

##### Necessary Pages
* _Home_ &ndash; A page that gives a visitor an overview of what the site is for as well as drawing the visitor to stay on the site. Does not need a lot of information but should have some text, images, and/or graphics.
* _About_ &ndash; Gives an overview of the gallery. A place for the location, about the gallery, hours, contact info, etc.
* _Exhibits_ &ndash; This page should show the current exhibition along with at least 4 future exhibitions. You can find small design/design related exhibits from existing galleries or make up your own. Each exhibition should have a title, sentence or two of descriptive text, dates, and any other relevant information. You should have an image for the exhibition but do not need to build an individual page for each exhibition.
* _Shop_ &ndash; Curate a selection of books and magazines the gallery might sell. Could be related to current and future exhibitions you found or more general books. You should have at least ten items in the shop.

#### <span id="music">Music Based</span>
Create a website for the fictional band, Dauphine's Revival. There are two options here. You can come up with the genre of music the band plays or you can use the following.

Part Jimi Hendrix, part James Brown and all New Orleans, Dauphine's Revival is a hard-edged funk band that employs brass-band beats, rock dynamics and improvisation in a jazz tradition. NPR hailed them as “New Orleans’ brightest new stars in a generation,” and New York Magazine wrote that “Dauphine's Revival takes in a century-plus worth of sounds—ragtime and jazz and gospel and soul and R&B and hip-hop—and attacks everything they play with festive fervor.” Here is a [playlist](https://open.spotify.com/playlist/0QWli5D7u30kIWANKYNhgQ?si=arNZCl6TTumTaGWysJ_pcg) of the kind of music the band plays.

##### Necessary Pages
* _Home_ &ndash; A page that gives a visitor an overview of what the site is for as well as drawing the visitor to stay on the site. Does not need a lot of information but should have some text, images, and/or graphics.
* _About_ &ndash; Gives an overview of the band. Should include the kind of music the band plays, who is in the band, how it was formed, and other relevant information.
* _Music_ &ndash; This pages shows the band's discography. Include at least 4 albums on this page with the album art, release year, and track list for each album.
* _Tour_ &ndash; A list of dates and places the band will be playing in the future. If you can't find a list, use this [one]( {{ site.baseurl }}/assets/p2/tour.txt)

#### <span id="place">Travel Based</span>
Create a website for a real, major city of your choosing. This website will be a guide for tourists visiting the city you choose. It would be easiest to choose a city that you have visited frequently or that has a good amount of information already available online.

##### Necessary Pages
* _Home_ &ndash; A page that gives a visitor an overview of what the site is for as well as drawing the visitor to stay on the site. Does not need a lot of information but should have some text, images, and/or graphics.
* _About_ &ndash; Gives an overview of the city. Could include information about the history of the city, travel options to get to the city, best times to visit, etc.
* _Sights_ &ndash; This pages shows the at least ten sites to visit while in the city. You can find an existing list or make your own depending on how familiar you are with the city.
* _24 Hours_ &ndash; A 24 hour guide to the city. The guide will start in the morning for breakfast (or earlier if there is something worth doing before breakfast) and end at night on the same day (a cool bar to visit or a trip to the top of a mountain to see the stars). If you need some inspiration check this one out for [36 hours in DC](https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2018/01/18/travel/what-to-do-36-hours-in-washington-dc.html)

#### Requirements

* 4 pages designed at 1440px wide and 320px wide
* Designs are consistent and use a grid
* Content for the chosen topic is represented in the designs
* Interactive features designed and represented (hover states for links for example)


### Checkpoints
* February 16: Start
* February 23: Site type chosen, content gathered, concept described, references gathered
* March 2: Site map, mobile and desktop wireframes (2 pages each), Style board
* March 9: First iteration of 320px designs
* March 23: Second iteration of 320px designs, first iteration of 1440px designs
* March 30: Final refinements to 320px designs, second iteration of 1440px designs
* April 6: Due
